welcome back to movie reviews today i'm
going to show you an action thriller
science fiction film titled rise of the
planet apes spoilers ahead
watch out and take care
the film opens at gen sis a genetic
therapy pharmaceutical company a female
ape designated number nine and known as
bright eyes by the staff has been given
the drug alz 112 and has shown
considerable progress
she is more sociable and calmer than
normal apes and has succeeded in
completing the towers of hanoi puzzle in
20 moves which is close to a perfect
score of 15 will rodman talks to his
boss steve jacobs and convinces him that
he is data to enable them to proceed
with human trials for the drug the next
day rodman and jacobs appear before the
board of directors in the genesis
conference room will explains that the
new drug causes neurogenesis the growth
of new brain cells and may heal any
number of degenerative brain disorders
such as parkinson's or alzheimer's the
only side effect is that the subjects
exposed to the drug have a green sparkle
to their eyes back in the lab the senior
ape caretaker robert franklin is having
trouble coaxing bright eyes out of her
cage
she acts aggressively towards robert and
the other helpers they attempt to lure
her out of the cage with orange soda but
when they try to wrangle her with a
lasso pole she goes ape and runs rampant
through the building
the chase ends when she crashes through
the glass window of the conference room
and building security guards kill her
fearing that what they witnessed with
bright eyes is a violent side effect of
the drug jacobs pronounces the drug
project dead will attempts to change his
mind but jacobs refuses claiming he
wants the remainder of the test apes put
down
after returning to the lab robert shows
will a baby ape hidden in bright eyes
cell
this explains that their assumption was
in error bright eyes was not acting
violently because of the drug but to
protect her child
robert does not have the heart to put
down the baby and gives the task to will
unwilling to do so he decides to take
the baby home
will returns home where he lives with
his father charles
charles suffers from alzheimer's and
needs care from a nurse when will is not
around will shows the baby ape to
charles who soon takes a liking to it
charles playfully calls the baby caesar
due to his love of shakespeare's julius
caesar it is implied
caesar soon shows incredible progress
able to feed himself after only two days
he has apparently contracted the
virus-based alz 112 from his mother his
temporary residence with will extends to
three years and will sets up a room for
him in the attic though ape-like in some
ways the now half-grown caesar is a
beloved member of the family and shows
great intelligence communicating complex
ideas with sign language
while caesar has been showing mental
growth charles's alzheimer's is getting
worse and he has an altercation with his
nurse will takes a major risk and steals
alz 112 from gen sis he gives a dose to
charles and it appears it is a miracle
drug when the next day will finds his
father sitting at the piano playing
perfectly meanwhile caesar has grown
enamored of watching the neighbors
playing outside and escapes out the
window into their neighbor's backyard
however his appearance frightens the
neighbor's daughter and her father
hunsiker angrily attacks caesar will and
charles managed to rescue caesar but not
before hunsiker has injured him
we'll sneak caesar into a zoo for
treatment
caesar is treated by a veterinarian
there named carolina rania
during the procedure caroline is
fascinated by how well caesar knows sign
language he even implies through sign
language that will and caroline should
go out to dinner to counter caesar's
wanderlust they take him across the
golden gate bridge to a redwood forest
for some outdoor play time upon arriving
at the forest caesar will not leave will
but makes a supplication gesture of
extending out arm palm up which is his
way of asking for permission to play
will gives his permission and caesar
takes to the trees
five years later caroline is living as
part of the rodman family and cesar has
grown
will has even started dressing him in a
shirt and pants
during a visit to the forest caesar is
barked at angrily by a dog and he
counters with a primal cry that scares
it off
will notice is that caesar seems sad and
confused about just what he is they
drive past gen sis and will explains to
caesar about the drug that made him more
intelligent as well as the death of his
mother
in the five years since he was given alz
112 charles condition has deteriorated
will reasons that his immune system has
developed antibodies and a more
aggressive virus is needed back at home
charles gets confused and wanders
outside and into their neighbor's car
he attempts to drive it but ends up
damaging it hunsaker the same neighbor
who attacks caesar angrily pulls charles
from the car in his demented state
charles is unable to convey his reasons
for being there caesar watches this from
his window in the attic and upon seeing
the neighbor yelling and angrily pushing
charles rushes out of the house
he attacks on psyche throwing him to the
ground jumping on him beating him and
finally biting off a finger
charles recognizes caesar and yells
caesar no
caesar backs off and goes to charles the
incident causes caesar to be taken to a
primate sanctuary by animal control
will and caroline walk him in and say
goodbye the sanctuary proves to be tough
on caesar during his first days it is
run by john landon with the care of the
animal supervised by a short tempered
and abusive sun dodge and a timid man
named rodney when caesar flings his food
at dodge and laughs the young man
angrily responds by turning a fire hose
on him forcing a cowering caesar into a
corner of his cage the sanctuary ships
12 apes to gen sys for the testing of
the newer version of alz 112 which is
named alz 113 will is once again in
charge of the testing and chooses a
rather harried ape named koba is his
first subject
koba is strapped down and given the new
drug through a breathing mask
however koba struggles and the hose
comes off the machine
almost everyone in the lab has their
breathing masks on except robert who is
accidentally exposed
when released with the other animals
into the main play area caesar meets the
alpha male of the group an ape-named
rocket rocket tears off caesar's shirt
and beats him
caesar also takes note of a gorilla
named buck in a locked cage and an
orangutan across from his cage who
speaks sign language quietly caesar
begins to communicate with the orangutan
maurice
sometime afterward dodge brings some of
his friends into the cage area of the
sanctuary where caesar manages to steal
a pocket knife from one of the visitors
caesar befriends the large gorilla in
the yard named buck who is never let out
of his cage by letting him loose
that night will take some of the alz 113
home to treat his father
charles refuses the treatment and dies
that night in his sleep after will and
caroline pack up the remainder of
charles belongings will's eyes fall on a
copy of julius caesar will returns to
work where he finds that jacobs has
greedily and recklessly pushed the
research schedule ahead while jacobs is
largely thinking of business profits
will warns him that the major hurdle
they need to worry about is how the
newer alz 113 will affect humans when
jacobs refuses to listen to will's
warnings will quits gen sis
meanwhile robert has been experiencing
side effects from his exposure to the
virus including sneezing that produces
droplets of blood from his sinuses will
returns to the ape sanctuary and
attempts to bribe john landon into
letting him as caesar john is willing to
do so but one will coaxes caesar to go
with him caesar refuses that evening
caesar busts out through the window he
found and goes back home he steals alz
113 from rodman's refrigerator and gives
it to the apes at the preserve that
night the apes are returning to their
cages but caesar box confronting and
defeating dodge in the yard
when grabbed dodge says take your
stinking paws off me you damn dirty ape
caesar speaks for the first time
shouting no
the other caretaker is a witness and
runs into the cage area trying to rescue
the now unconscious dodge
the apes attack him but caesar calls
them off and in a show of mercy puts him
into caesar's cage dodge tries to escape
and gets killed
at dawn will calls to check on caesar
but receives no answer driving over to
investigate he finds the facilities
wrecked the apes gone and the alz 113
canisters open in the cage areas
meanwhile the apes are making their way
across town
caesar divides them into two groups
buck goes with one group to the zoo to
liberate the apes there while caesar
leads the second group to gensis
the police are called in
jacobs boards a police helicopter as
caesar and bucks groups joined forces
now some 50 to 60 chimps orangutans and
guerilla strong however the apes seem to
be intentionally preventing the deaths
of humans they encounter will and
caroline have heard about the rampage
and upon learning that the apes are
headed for the golden gate bridge they
surmise that caesar is leading the apes
to the redwood forest the officers are
waiting on the bridge to fire on the
apes but caesar again divides his forces
one group climbs the suspension cables
while another swings from the underside
of the structure to get past the
blockade in the helicopter jacobs
catches sight of caesar and orders the
men to shoot at him reasoning that the
death of caesar will call off the others
however as the helicopter hovers low to
the bridge buck leaps onto it bringing
it down at the cost of his own life
caesar feels sadness over the loss of
his comrade and soon finds the remains
of the helicopter precariously clinging
to the side of the bridge with jacobs
pleading for help
instead caesar turns away and kobo
pushes the helicopter off killing jacobs
upon impact with the water the apes
proceed into the forest will steals a
police car and heads for caesar he calls
out caesar's name but is accosted by one
of his followers
however caesar soon appears and the
others back away will attempts to
reconcile with his friend promising that
if caesar comes home with him he'll
protect him
caesar shocks will by holding him close
and whispering caesar is home
we'll watches as caesar and several
other apes climb up into the trees and
survey the forest
and the world beyond
in an aftermath sequence we see will's
neighbor hanseker reporting for duty as
a pilot at san francisco international
airport as he walks to his plane he
realizes that he is bleeding from his
nose
as the camera pans up we see the digital
boards flashing to different
destinations
assign that soon these places will be
infected with alz 113 sealing mankind's
fate
make sure to subscribe and turn on post
notifications so you can watch more
videos like this thanks for watching